
INSTRUCTIONS
* These are thoughtful questions designed to stimulate your thinking and help us look for threads and patterns that run throughout your life. They may point to possible careers or maybe simply qualities to build into your work-life. 
* It will take time to answer them all, so perhaps answer a few at a time and take a break when you get tired.
* It is very helpful to take quiet time to enjoy composing your responses to these questions and to answer each question as clearly and thoughtfully as possible, expressing your best and most honest response. 
* A few words or sentences can be enough, but often the ‘gems’ are found in the detail or just as we think we’ve written down everything an idea pops up. So be as thorough as you can. 
* And finally, if you find you’re repeating answers in different questions – GREAT, KEEP AT IT! This is what we’re looking for!

What I wanted to be when I grew up!

1. What did you want to be when you were younger? Consider this question from as far back as you can remember. Write down everything and as much detail as you can – however boring, silly :) or outrageous.

Start with “I remember …”












2. What attracted you to these careers or occupations?












3. Knowing what you know now, which careers - or parts of them - are still 

i) attractive? 










ii) unattractive?










Working Review:

4. What aspects of these careers, whether good or bad, do you have in your work 

i) currently?










ii) in past roles?











5. How do you currently enjoy yourself at work? 














6. If you won the Lottery, became a multi-millionaire, and could choose to be or do anything; 

i) what would you be, what would you do with your time?














ii)  what attracts you to these areas above? Answer as fully as you can!

















Hobbies and Interests:

7. What hobbies or interests do you have now?










8. What hobbies or interests have you had in the past (from the earliest to date)? Start with “I remember …”










9. What hobbies or interests would you take up if you had more: 
         
    Time?
    
    
    
    Money?	
    
    
    
    Freedom?
    
    

10. What attracts you to these hobbies and interests?









People and Qualities:

11. Who have you, or do you, really love working with? 










12. What qualities do these people have?











13. Where might you find people with these qualities? 











14. Which of YOUR qualities do you MOST enjoy using?












The Bigger Picture:

So, first reviewing the answers all your questions above, take some time to answer these final pondering questions:

15. If there was something you had given up on in your life – what would it be?










16. What is your dream?










17. What do you want the rest of your life to be about?











18. Deep down, what do you really want from your work life?










19. What if there were NO obstacles whatsoever? 










20. What do you want to be doing with your life in 1, 5, 10 and 20 years’ time?











21. What common themes, building blocks or key pieces of information have you noticed from your answers in this section that would you like to make a note of here:






















Career Discovery Ponder Sheet	 

 			http://RaviRaman.com  

